# Short Introduction on Gazebo

As explained previously, ArduCopter is just an autopilot firmware that takes care of inner-loop control - it takes in commands like arm and takeoff and generate the appropriate control signals to the actuators (motors). We need a physics engine to perform a proper simulation.

When we run ArduPilot's SITL, it launches ArduPilot's native Physics Simulator. This is okay to simulate simple missions - like flying to a specified coordinate - but it lacks several features:

* A Graphical-User-Interface (GUI) to visualise how the drone moves
* Inability to add sensors and objects akin to a real world

Gazebo is a tool to solve these issues. 

### Common Files
There are two types of file you might encounter when working with Gazebo:

* `.world` contains the physics of the world simulated by Gazebo. For example,
you can specify the physics engine.
    * Differential equations that describe how states in the world changes with 
    time, including the solver, iterations, precision etc.
    * Ambient scenery of the world.
    * Presence of shadow.
* `.sdf` files are models that can be inputted into gazebo. The information
within these files include:
    * Mass of the files
    * Moments of Inertia
    * Mesh Size

Some example worlds are shipped with Gazebo. These worlds are installed in
`/usr/share/gazebo-11/worlds`, such as an `empty_world.world`.

## Installing Gazebo

The steps are outlines in the official documentation [here](https://classic.gazebosim.org/tutorials?tut=ros_installing&cat=connect_ros). *Gazebo should be installed by default if you have installed ROS.*

Check if you have Gazebo installed by running:
```bash
gazebo
```
You should see the GUI open with an empty world. If not, install Gazebo.

### For integrating ROS with Gazebo
To allow Gazebo to communicate with ROS, we also need to install a ROS package
called `gazebo_ros_pkgs`. This should have come with the full Desktop
installation of ROS, but you opted for alternative installation options then you
can still install it by:

```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-noetic-gazebo-ros-pkgs ros-noetic-gazebo-ros-control
```
Make sure the ROS version is the command is the same as the version installed.

We can launch Gazebo worlds with ROS launch files provided by the `gazebo_ros`
package. Example launch files are located at `/opt/ros/melodic/share/gazebo_ros/launch`,
including `empty_world.launch` and `mud_world.launch`.

Within such launch files you can specify
parameters such as "show simulation time", "debug mode".