# SITL with Gazebo

This document show the steps required to get SITL running using the Gazebo simulator engine.

Before attempting to run SITL with Gazebo, ensure that SITL is running well by itself, with instructions from the previous steps outlined [here](../2.%20SITL%20Setup/2.1.%20Building%20ArduPilot.md).

## 1. ArduPilot-Gazebo Plugin

### Choosing your Plugin
To allow ArduPilot to communicate with the simulated drone model in Gazebo, we need to install an **ArduPilot-Gazebo Plugin**.

There are two open-source plugins available for ArduPilot:

1. Older, Khancyr's version [[GitHub page here]](https://github.com/khancyr/ardupilot_gazebo)

2. Newer version [[Github page here]](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot_gazebo)

The newer version is currently maintained with better documentation, but **the older version, as of Nov 2023, is more stable and works with my Ubuntu 22.04 setup, so that's what we will be using.**

*Does not hurt to try the newer version - just remove the folder if it fails to build.*

### Installing the plugin

The steps to install are demonstrated in the individual GitHub pages.

We just need to clone the repository and build the plugin binary. Remember to run the last command since that installs the plugin into the system.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/khancyr/ardupilot_gazebo
cd ardupilot_gazebo
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j4
sudo make install
```

For convenience, we also want to make sure Gazebo is setup when starting up a new terminal.

```bash
echo 'source /usr/share/gazebo/setup.sh' >> ~/.bashrc
```

Set Path of Gazebo Models and Worlds so that they can be found (Adapt the path to where you cloned the repo).

```bash
echo 'export GAZEBO_MODEL_PATH=~/ardupilot_gazebo/models' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'export GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH=~/ardupilot_gazebo/worlds:${GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH}' >> ~/.bashrc
```

Finally, reload the terminal to stash the changes.
```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

## 2. Launching the Simulation with the IRIS drone

We first run the Gazebo simulation in one terminal. It is important to run this before SITL to ensure SITL can connect to the simulated drone.
Adjust the path of the Gazebo World as needed.

```bash
gazebo --verbose ~/ardupilot_gazebo/worlds/iris_arducopter_runway.world
```

In a second terminal, launch the SITL instance specifying that it will use the gazebo simulator with the IRIS frame, which is a specific type of quadcopter frame extensively used for simulations. *The `-f` stands for "frame"*.
```bash
sim_vehicle.py -v ArduCopter -f gazebo-iris
```

## 3. Custom Gazebo Simulations
While the IRIS drone model and world is useful for testing basic scripts, it is not a good representation of the actual drone frame used. 

For more accurate simulations, one can add their own drone models and worlds. For example, in our case we may want to add an ArUco marker to the world to detect it.
