# Creating a Catkin Workspace

`catkin` is set of commands to organize your workspace. This file will
demonstratethe way catkin tools are used.

## 1. Initializing `catkin` workspace

* Create a directory which will store your catkin workspace. A common name is
 `catkin_ws`, but other names can be used as well.

    ```bash
    mkdir -p catkin_ws/src
    ```

    <details>
    <summary> Command explained </summary>

    This command makes a new folder called `catkin workspace`, then create another
    folder within it called `src`, which will store our source (src) code.

    * `mkdir` stands for make directory
    * `-p` stands for parents. Usually, `mkdir` will not allow you to create a
    directory within another directory directly. The `-p` tells `mkdir` to create
    all the parent directories if neccessary.
    </details>
    <br>

*   Although this is an empty workspace (we have not downloaded or written any
packages yet), we can attempt to first build it to visualize what catkin does.

    ```bash
    catkin build
    ```

    The will create multiple new folders. Your workspace will look like this:
    ```
    catkin_ws
    |
    |----- build     # Contains build information to turn your code into machine language
    |
    |----- devel     # Contains scripts to let terminal be aware of the packages in this workspace
    |
    |----- logs      # Contain logs for code execution
    |
    |----- src       # Where you store your ROS packages and written code
    ```
    These `build`, `devel` and `logs` folders can be deleted at any time using
    `catkin clean`. The main folder is `src`, which catkin never changes. After
    cleaning, simply run `catkin build` to recreate the `build`, `devel` and 
    `logs`.

* Now we let the terminal be aware of the packages available in this workspace
by running:

    ```bash
    source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash
    ```

    <details>
    <summary> Command explained </summary>

    This just runs the `setup.bash` file which will let the terminal be aware
    of the catkin workspace.

    </details>
    <br>

## 2. Startup `catkin` workspace by default (Optional)

A new terminal is not aware of what your `catkin` workspace is and what packages
it contain. To do this we need to run the file `~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash`.
This can be annoying in the long run. Instead, we can let this line of code be
run automatically when we open up a new terminal. Just run:

``` bash
echo "source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc
```

<details>
<summary> Command explained </summary>

The `.bashrc` file is run automatically everytime a new terminal is launched.
We are simply adding a line of code to this file so that this line of code
will be run everytime we open a new terminal, which will run the `setup.bash`
and setup the `catkin` workspace.

</details>
<br>

