# Building ArduPilot for SITL

### What is an Autopilot and why do we need it?
The flight controller runs a programme called an autopilot. This is a programme, such as an executable (.exe) file, that is uploaded to a flight controller. 

**An autopilot takes care of inner-loop drone control**. As far as we are concerned, we can imagine it as a black box - whenever you send a command to the autopilot like arm and takeoff, it will generate an appropriate control signal to the motor actuators to perform the manoeuvre.

Without an autopilot, we would need to specify how much power to give to each motor, just to perform simple manoeuvres such as stabilizing in the air and takeoff.

### What is Software-In-The Loop (SITL)?

Software-In-The-Loop (SITL) refers to running a simulated drone fully via software.

## Building the ArduPilot/ArduCopter executable

To simulate a drone, we must obviously simulate the autopilot. Therefore, we need to build the autopilot programme that is normally uploaded to a physical flight controller, but instead run it locally in our computer.

The steps to build the programme are outlined [here](https://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/building-setup-linux.html)
by the official ArduPilot site.

1. Clone the ardupilot repo.

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot.git
    ```
2. Install required packages, then log-in and log-out to make changes permanent.

    ```bash
    cd ardupilot
    Tools/environment_install/install-prereqs-ubuntu.sh -y
    . ~/.profile
    ```

3. Build the binary using the `waf` command. You can change the board and vehicle depending on your usage. We are most likely using it for simulation, so choose the **SITL board**.
    ```bash
    ./waf configure --board sitl
    ./waf copter
    ```

    To build the ArduCopter binary, a compatible C++ compiler is needed, which is
    a `g++` compiler of version 9+. if this is not available in your Ubuntu version, see **1.1. C Compiler Configuration**  to see
    how to download this.

If this builds successfully, you are ready to run SITL.