# SITL Setup and Control

This section explains the basic procedure to startup a SITL instance and how to
use programmes to connect to the SITL vehicle and control it.

An autopilot by itself is not sufficient for a simulation - we need some sort of **physics engine** to simulate how an actual drone fly. Luckily, ArduPilot's SITL provides a basic physics engine for us to get stated.

If interested in launching SITL while leveraging the physics engine in  **Gazebo**, then look at the [next section](../3.%20SITL%20with%20Gazebo/3.1.%20Gazebo%20Introduction.md), since launching SITL with the Gazebo simulator
engine require many additional steps.

## 1. Starting up SITL

After building ArduCopter for SITL as outlined in [2.1. Building ArduPilot](./2.1.%20Building%20ArduPilot.md), you can run the simulated vehicle by running the command
below. This command launches simulated vehicle (autopilot + simulated drone frame) and MAVProxy simultaneously.

```bash
sim_vehicle.py
```

***For older Linux versions, you might need to switch to `python3` to run this command**. See [1.2. Python
configuration](../1.%20Linux%20Setup/1.2.%20Python%20Configuration.md) for information on how to do this. This is a problem if you are running older ROS versions that runs on python 2, so remember to switch
back.*

The output of this command will have a line as below. **This is important as it tells us how to connect to the vehicle with other programmes.**
```bash
"mavproxy.py" "--out" "172.29.0.1:14550" "--master" "tcp:127.0.0.1:5760" "--sitl" "127.0.0.1:5501"
```
SITL runs as a separate device with its own IP address separate from the Linux environment (hence the IP address `127.0.0.1` which refers to itself).

**MAVProxy then forward the connection to other devices so that other programs can connect to it**. 


## 2. Connecting other programs to SITL

After running `sim_vehicle.py`, the MAVProxy output can be referred to allow other programmes to connect to the drone, such as to control it.

In the example below:
```bash
"mavproxy.py" "--out" "172.29.0.1:14550" "--master" "tcp:127.0.0.1:5760" "--sitl" "127.0.0.1:5501"
```


- `--out "172.29.0.1:14550"` denotes one of the forwarded ports. In this context, the IP address `172.29.0.1` refer to my Windows computer (since I am running SITL in WSL), so that programs running in my Windows environment can connect to the vehicle via port `14550`, such as MissionPlanner. **This is an intended behaviour - `sim_vehicle.py` checks if you are in WSL2 and forward the connection to the host Windows environment if true**. You will find that after SITL is launched, **MissionPlanner automatically connects to the vehicle** because it has been preconfigured to listen to port `14550`.

We can extend this concept to allow more programs to connect to our SITL vehicle, just by adding more `--out` arguments as needed. Below are two examples:

### Connecting to our Windows Programme
Let's say our Windows environment has address `172.29.0.1`, and port `14550` is already occupied by MissionPlanner.

If we want a `dronekit` programme (or any other programme) in Windows to connect to the drone and control it, we need to specify another port since `14550` is occupied. We can specify an additional port via:

```bash
sim_vehicle.py --out "172.29.0.1:14451"
```

Our programme can use the connection string `udp:172.29.0.1:14451` to connect to the drone. For example, a pymavlink program like:

```python
from pymavlink import mavutil

# Start a connection listening on a UDP port
the_connection = mavutil.mavlink_connection('udp:172.29.0.1:14551')
```

### Connecting to our Linux Programme
Let's say our Linux terminal has IP address `172.29.4.129`.

If we want a `MAVROS` programme in the Linux environment to connect to the drone and control it, we need to specify another port via:
```bash
sim_vehicle.py --out "172.29.4.129:14451"
```
This will forward the port from SITL to the Linux environment on port 14451. Now, our MAVROS programme can connect to the drone via connection string `udp:172.29.4.129:14451`.


### Frequently-encountered Errors

* **"The requested address is not valid in its context"** - supplied IP address is likely wrong. Check if the IP connection forwarded by MAVProxy is the same the system running the script.

* **Connection timed out** - Try rerunning SITL, this will sometimes solve the issue.
