# Configuring WSL Environment
This document gives some general tip on how one might configure its WSL or Linux
environment.

## 1. Updating packages
Older versions of Ubuntu ships with older packages. For example, Ubuntu 18.04
comes with C compilers (gcc) of version 7. In some cases, this may not be
compatible with some source code, so an upgrade may be desired.

### 1.1. C/C++ compilers
This section outlines the steps required to download alternative compilers that
do not come by default with the operating system.

* First, we need to let the operating system know where we can download the
newer versions of the compilers. This is done with the first line of code below.
The second line updates the list of repository which are all the places where
Ubuntu will look for when the user wants to download a new package.
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt update
```
* You might encounter a **GPG key error**. The reason is omitted here but the 
error should return a key, something along the lines of *1E9377A2BA9EF27F*. Run 
the two lines of code below, replacing the key placeholder by the actual value.
```
gpg --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys [key]
gpg --export --armor [key] 
```
* Now you are ready to install the new compilers. Download them via:
```
sudo apt-install gcc-10   # C   Compiler
sudo apt-install g++-10   # C++ Compiler
```

* Now you should have the new compilers installed but the old compilers will
still be used unless specified. We want to make the new compilers our default
option. We do this using the `update-alternatives` command, which allow us
to set a priority value. The default compiler should have a priority of 1, so
setting a value higher than this will be enough. In the case below, `gcc-10` is
given a priority of 10. The default option is always the one with the highest 
priority value.
```
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-10 10
```

### 1.2. Python versions
This section outlines the steps required to download alternative python versions
that do not come by default with the operating system. You will see how these
steps are analagous to 1.1.

* First, update the list of repositories to let the operating system know where
it can download the newer versions of python. This is found in the "deadsnakes"
repository. Do this by:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes:ppa
```

