**Important Note**: First and foremost, update and upgrade the kernel to get the
latest versions of files:
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

# Configuring your compiler version
This document gives some general tip on how one might configure your C/C++
compiler version.

Older versions of Ubuntu ships with older packages. For example, Ubuntu 18.04
comes with C compilers (gcc) of version 7. In some cases, this may not be
compatible with some source code, so an upgrade may be desired.

## Installing unsupported C/C++ compilers
This section outlines the steps required to download alternative compilers that
do not come by default with the operating system.

* First, we need to let the operating system know where we can download the
newer versions of the compilers. This is done with the first line of code below.
The second line updates the list of repository which are all the places where
Ubuntu will look for when the user wants to download a new package.
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt update
```
* You might encounter a **GPG key error**, something along the lines of "The
following signature couldn't be verified because the public key is not
available: NO_PUBKEY 1E9377A2BA9EF27F".

    Using the key *1E9377A2BA9EF27F*, run the two lines of code below, 
    replacing the key placeholder by the actual value. The first line fetches
    and import the GPG key, while the second line exports it and add it to the
    APT keyring.
```
gpg --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys [key]
gpg --export --armor [key] 
```
* Now you are ready to install the new compilers. Download them via:
```
sudo apt-install gcc-10   # C   Compiler
sudo apt-install g++-10   # C++ Compiler
```
Then you are done!

## Switching between compiler versions
If you have performed the last step, you will have noticed that the old compiler is still used by default. If we want to switch between compiler versions, we can use the `update-alternatives` command.

Let's use the C-compiler `gcc` as an example. Currently, he `gcc` command is just a **symbolic link** that points to the actual compiler, such as `gcc-7`. We can let the symbolic link to point towards multiple compilers like `gcc-10` by:

```bash
sudo update-alternatives install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-7 7
sudo update-alternatives install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-10 10
```
The numbers `7` and `10` denotes the **priorities** given to each compiler. By default, the symbolic link will point towards the compiler with higher priority.

*In fact, this is how you can control different versions of the same programme.*
```bash
sudo update-alternatives install <PATH_TO_SYMBOLIC_LINK> <NAME_OF_SYMBOLIC_LINK> <PATH_POINTED_BY_LINK> <PRIORITY_NUMBER>
```

### Manually switching compiler version
Instead of setting priority number to set the compiler version automatically, you can configure this manually:
```bash
sudo update-alternatives --config gcc
```
