# Creating a package
## What is a ROS Package
**Formally, a ROS package is a structure or collection of ROS nodes aimed
to perform some related functionalities.**

More on ROS nodes later, but for now you can think of each ROS node as a script
(e.g., a python script) or an executable (.exe file). ROS offers a way of 
running multiple nodes to run and communicate with each other, and together they
are able to achieve a goal. We can also run multiple packages, each with their
associated nodes, to achieve more complex operations.

In the case of an autonomous drone that is able to detect an ArUco marker and
land on top of it, we might have two ROS packages:

1.  `aruco_detector` - This package is responsible for detecting the aruco
markers. Within this package, we can just have a single node constantly running 
to look for markers.

2. `drone_control` - This package controls the drone. This can have multiple
nodes as listed below.

    * `marker_follower` - Listens to the node in `aruco_detector` and generate 
    MAVLink messages telling the drone to follow it.
    * `descent_controller_node` - Send a MAVLink message to perform landing
    sequence when `aruco_detector` says that marker is close enough.

In the case above, it is a good practice to create a separate package 
`autonomous_drone`, which contains *launch* files (more on this later) that
runs all the nodes in the two packages `aruco_detector` and `drone_control`.

**Bottom line, organizing the workspace in terms of packages merely improves
modularity, so that certain packages can be added and removed without completely
breaking the program. It doesn't affect how the program works - that's the role
of nodes. You can organize the packages in whatever way you see fit.**

## How to create a ROS Package
When we are in a catkin workspace, we can create a new ROS package simply by
running the command:

```bash
$ catkin_create_pkg <package_name> [dependency1] [deendency2]
```

All packages should (not neccessarily) be put under the `src` folder.
Navigate to this folder with `cd ~/catkin_ws/src`.

Let's create an empty package called `pub_sub`, which stands for publisher 
subscriber. Within the `src` folder, we run: 
```
catkin_create_pkg pub_sub rospy
```
This specifies the package name as `pub_sub` and it depends on the `rospy`
package. When done, this will create a new directory called `pub_sub` within 
the `src` folder.
```
catkin_ws
|
|----- build
|----- devel
|----- logs
|----- src
       |
       |----- pub_sub
              |----- CMakeLists.txt
              |----- package.xml
```

The next step involves writing scripts or source code to actually do something.
