# ROS Program in Python
**This file outlines the steps to write the most basic ROS script in python.**
This should also teach you the concept of a publisher and a subscriber.

## Writing a simple script that creates a pubisher node
Here we extend from the example of **1.3. ROS Packages**, where we created
a package called `pub_sub`.

Now we add a `scripts` folder within the `pub_sub` package to store all the
python scripts we will write to create the nodes.
```bash
$ cd pub_sub      # Move within the pub_sub directory
$ mkdir scripts   # Create a directory/folder called scripts
```

We now add a file within the `scripts` directory called `publisher.py`. This
python file, as its name imply, will create a **publisher** node. 
```bash
$ cd scripts          # Move within the /scripts directory
$ touch publisher.py  # Create a file called publisher.py
```

We edit the `publisher.py` file using some text editor. Add the following code:
```python 
#!/usr/bin/env python3
import rospy
import std_msgs.msg import Int64

rospy.init_node("publisher_node")
pub = rospy.Publisher("topic", Int64, queue_size=1)

while not rospy.is_shutdown():
    pub.publish(1)
    rospy.sleep(1)
```

Let us analyse the code above line by line:
* `#!/usr/bin/env python3` - This is a "shebang". Basically, when this file is
run, we use the specified `python3` interpreter to read the file.
* `import rospy` - Imports the `rospy` library to be used within the script.
This needs to be imported when writing a ROS node.
* `import std_msgs.msg import Int64` - In this case we want a publisher
to publish/send an integer data to a topic. We import it so we can use it later.
* `rospy.init_node("publisher_node")` - Create a ROS node called 
`publisher_node`. It should be noted that **the node itself is not a 
publisher**, but the node just happens to have a publisher.  
* `pub = rospy.Publisher("topic", Int64, queue_size=1)` - creates a Publisher
 object and store it as `pub`. The arguments are:
    * `"topic"` is the name of the topic which the publisher publishes to, in 
    this case the topic itself is named "topic". 
    * `Int64` specifies that the data which the publisher will send is a 64-bit
    integer.
    * `queue_size=1` specifies the number of data points the topic can hold. For
    example, when a queue is full, the oldest data will be discarded when a new
    data comes in the queue. In thie case, when the publisher `pub` publishes
    an integer, since the queue size is 1 of "topic", then the previous data 
    will be discarded and replaced by the new one.
* Finally the while loop just tells the publisher `pub` to publish an integer
"1" to the topic forever.

### What is a ROS topic?
A ROS topic is essentially a letterbox. A publisher can send data (put letters)
into this letterbox, while a subscriber can read data (read letters) from this
letterbox.

In the example above, the `publisher.py` defines a publisher `pub` which 
publishes the integer "1" to the ROS topic called `topic`, regardless if there
is a subscriber subscribing to this topic.

## Writing a simple script that creates a subscriber node
At this point, if we just run the `publisher.py` file, it will create a 
publisher called `pub` that keeps sending "1" to the ROS topic called `topic`.
Now we want to create another node that listens to this ROS topic and prints it.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
import rosypy
from std_msgs.msg import Int64

# Callback function
def callback(msg):
    print(msg)

# Node + Subscriber initialization
rospy.init_node("subscriber_node")
rospy.Subscriber("topic", Int64, callback)

rospy.spin()
```

The first few lines have been explained previously. For the other lines, let's
look at them carefully.

* `rospy.init_node("subscriber_node")` - creates a node called `subscriber_node`.
Again, **the node itself is not a subscriber**, but this node is responsible for
creating a subscriber.
* `rospy.Subscriber("topic", Int64, callback)` - creates a subscriber that
subscribes to the ROS topic called "topic". Expects an 64-bit integer data.
The `callback` function will be called whenever it receives a message from the 
topic, in this case just printing it via `print(msg)`.
* `rospy.spin()` - tells the node to idle until the subscriber receives a new
 message.


## How to run the program

### Build the workspace
First, we need to let ROS know that our package depends on `rospy`. If in the previous section you built the package using `catkin_create_pkg pub_sub rospy`, then this is already done.

If not, we modify `package.xml` to specify this. Add the following tags:
```xml
  <build_depend>rospy</build_depend>
  <build_export_depend>rospy</build_export_depend>
  <exec_depend>rospy</exec_depend>
```
Then we rebuild the workspace, with all of its packages with this command:
```bash
cd ~/catkin_ws
catkin build
```

### Running the program
We need three terminals to run the program:

In terminal 1, start the roscore instance:
```bash
$ roscore
```

In terminal 2, run the script `publisher.py`:

```bash
$ rosrun pub_sub publisher.py
```

In terminal 3, run the script `subscriber.py`:

```bash
$ rosrun pub_sub subscriber.py
```
Terminal 3 should output a '1' every second, courtest of `publisher.py`.
Now, if you terminate terminal 2, the publisher will no longer run, so no more 
'1' in terminal 3 will show. The subscriber is still subscribed to that topic,
but there is just nothing published to that topic!
