# ROS Server-Client Architecture

In section **2.4. ROS program in Python**, we have introduced that **publisher-subscriber** architecture. Basically, publisher publishes to a topic and a subscriber listens to a topoic.

In this section we introduce another type of architecture called **server-client**. Instead of a topic, they communicate through a **service**. A client requests for a service from a server, the server executes it and sends a response to the client.

## What is a ROS service and how does it work?

A ROS server can set up ROS service(s). A client can send a request to a server, where the server do some taskk processing with the request, i.e., performing a service, then sending a response back to the client.

**We can use this architecture to "react" to situations. While a node runs a service, we can setup a client node and request for the service only if we need to. This contrasts with pubisher-subscriber architecture, since the publishers and subscribers are always sending and receiving messages respectively.**

## Client-Server Implementation in Python

### (Optional) Creating New Package

We can choose to implement this in a new package or the previous `pub_sub` package that we created. Here we will create a new package called `client_server`, then we create a new `scripts` directory.
```bash
cd ~/catkin_ws/src
catkin_create_pkg client_server
cd client_server
mkdir scripts
```

### Creating a node that creates a service

Create a script within the `scripts` directory called `server.py`. Add this piece of code to it:

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3

import rospy
from std_srvs.srv import SetBool, SetBoolResponse

def callback(req):
    response = SetBoolResponse()
    if req.data == True:
        response.success = True
        response.message = "The device was enabled"
    else:
        response.success = True
        response.message = "The device was disabled"

    return response

rospy.init_node("server_node")
rospy.Service("service", SetBool, callback)
rospy.spin()
```
This code essentially creates a service called `service`. Whenever this is run, we can check if this service is successfully created using `rosservice list`.

#### Code Explained 

Let's explain this piece of code line-by-line:

```python
import rospy
```
This imports the neccessary libraries. `rospy` is used for all ROS-related tasks such as node initialization, publisher creation etc.

```python
from std_srvs.srv import SetBook, SetBookResponse
```
We also import data types called `SetBool` and `SetBoolResponse`. All services data types constitute two parts - a request and a response. Here we import the `SetBoolResponse` to send the correct type of response back to the client.

```python
rospy.init_node("server_node")
```
This sets up a ROS node called `server_node`.

```python
rospy.Service("service", SetBool, callback)
```

### Creating a node that uses the service (a client)

Create a file called `client.py` and add this text:

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3

import rospy
from std_srvs.srv import SetBool, SetBoolRequest

rospy.init_node("client")

client = rospy.ServiceProxy("test_service", SetBool)
client.wait_for_service()

request = SetBoolRequest()
request.data = True

response = client(request)

print(response)
```

#### Explain code line-by-line

```python
client = rospy.ServiceProxy("test_service", SetBook)
```
We create a client of the service "test_service", while has type SetBool. Interestingly, a client is created using `rospy.ServiceProxy`.

```python
client.wait_for_service()
```
This is the same as `rospy.spin()`, but for clients. The program will be stuck here is the service is unavailable.

```python
request = SetBoolRequest()
request.data = True
```
These lines follow `client.wait_for_service()` so is only reachable after the service is launched. Here we create a request variable that has the type `SetBool` and sets its `data` attribute to `True`. We have not send the request at this stage.

```python
response = client(request)
```
The client sends a response to a server, which processes this request and sends a response. Save the response under the variable `response`.

```python
print(response)
```
This node can also do something with the returned response. Here, we just print it to the terminal.

## (Optional) Create a launch file to simultaneously run server and client
