# SITL Setup and Control

This page follows the steps outlined [here](https://masoudir.github.io/mavros_tutorial/).

## 1. Understanding IP addresses
Programs such as **Mission Planner**, **MAVROS** and/or **dronekit** connect to
SITL via IP addresses. We need to know this IP address to ensure other programs
can reach the simulated SITL drone. Do this in Linux using the command:

```bash
ifconfig
```
This will return something akin to:
```bash
eth0: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 172.29.4.129  netmask 255.255.240.0  broadcast 172.29.15.255
        inet6 fe80::215:5dff:fe8d:e31c  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x20<link>
        ether 00:15:5d:8d:e3:1c  txqueuelen 1000  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 14441  bytes 12107093 (12.1 MB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 477620  bytes 38413347 (38.4 MB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

lo: flags=73<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING>  mtu 65536
        inet 127.0.0.1  netmask 255.0.0.0
        inet6 ::1  prefixlen 128  scopeid 0x10<host>
        loop  txqueuelen 1000  (Local Loopback)
        RX packets 4621952  bytes 1848486785 (1.8 GB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 4621952  bytes 1848486785 (1.8 GB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0
```

With the information of the IP address (172.29.4.129) and the network mask (255.255.24.0), we can know two things:
- Network address - This part of the IP address identifies which network/subnetwork the system operates in. Devices within the same network share the same network address.
- Host address - This part of the IP address identifies a specific device within the network.

In this case, we see that the local IP address is given by `172.29.4.129`, as shown in the second line. **However, this IP address is reachable by local
programmes running in the Linux environment only**. 

Other IP addresses need to be used if programmes outside the environment running
SITL needs to connect to the drone. 

## 2. Setting up SITL

After building ArduCopter for SITL as outlined in [3.2. Building ArduPilot](./3.2.%20Building%20ArduPilot.md), you can run the simulated vehicle by running the command
below. This command launches simulated vehicle and MAVProxy simultaneously.

```bash
sim_vehicle.py --out "172.29.4.129:14451"
sim_vehicle.py
```

***For older Linux versions, you might need to switch to `python3` to run this command**. See [1.2. Python
configuration](../1.%20Linux%20Setup/1.2.%20Python%20Configuration.md) for information on how to do this. This is a problem if you are running ROS Melodic since that runs on python 2, so remember to switch
back.*

### Details SITL Connections

After running `sim_vehicle.py`, the output of this command will have a line as below. **This is important as it tells us how to connect to the vehicle.**
```bash
"mavproxy.py" "--out" "172.29.0.1:14550" "--master" "tcp:127.0.0.1:5760" "--sitl" "127.0.0.1:5501"
```
SITL runs as a separate device with its own IP address separate from the Linux environment (hence the IP address `127.0.0.1` which refers to itself).

MAVProxy is able to forward the connection to other computers so that other programs can connect to it. 

- `--out "172.29.0.1:14550"` denotes one of the forwarded ports. In this context, the IP address `172.29.0.1` refer to my Windows computer (since I am running SITL in WSL), so that programs running in my Windows environment can connect to the vehicle via port `14550`, such as **MissionPlanner**. You will find that after SITL is launched, **MissionPlanner automatically connects to the vehicle** because it has been preconfigured to listen to port `14550`.

### Adding additional connections

We can extend this concept to allow more programs to connect to our SITL vehicle.

#### Connecting to our Windows Programme
Let's say our Windows environment has address `172.29.0.1`, and port `14550` is already occupied by MissionPlanner.

If we want a `dronekit` programme (or any other programme) in Windows to connect to the drone and control it, we need to specify another port since `14550` is occupied. We can specify an additional port via:

```bash
sim_vehicle.py --out "172.29.0.1:14451"
```

Our programme can use the connection string `udp:172.29.0.1:14451` to connect to the drone. For example, a pymavlink program like:

```python
from pymavlink import mavutil

# Start a connection listening on a UDP port
the_connection = mavutil.mavlink_connection('udp:172.29.0.1:14551')
```

#### Connecting to our Linux Programme
Let's say our Linux terminal has IP address `172.29.4.129`.

If we want a `MAVROS` programme in the Linux environment to connect to the drone and control it, we need to specify another port via:
```bash
sim_vehicle.py --out "172.29.4.129:14451"
```
This will forward the port from SITL to the Linux environment on port 14451. Now, our MAVROS programme can connect to the drone via connection string `udp:172.29.4.129:14451`.

**More ports can be forwarded using the `--out` argument as needed.**


Frequently encountered errors:

* **"The requested address is not valid in its context"** - supplied IP address is likely wrong. Check if the IP connection forwarded by MAVProxy is the same the system running the script.

* **Connection timed out** - Try rerunning SITL, this will sometimes solve the issue.
