# Gazebo for SITL

Gazebo is a standalone physics simulation software. Although this file is 
located under `ROS Tutorial`, Gazebo is independent from ROS - simulations can
be run within Gazebo itself.

## Installating ArduPilot Gazebo Plugin
If we want to simulate a drone in Gazebo, we need to install a plugin which allow the autopilot program and Gazebo to communicate with each other. For ArduCopter, what we need is the **ardupilot_gazebo** plugin.

As of Nov 2023, I have found that the older version of the plugin is more stable (Github page [here](https://github.com/khancyr/ardupilot_gazebo)), at least with Ubuntu 20.04. Follow the documentation of the page.

1. Built the plugin:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/khancyr/ardupilot_gazebo
    cd ardupilot_gazebo
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make -j4
    sudo make install
    ```

2. Make sure Gazebo is setup during startup everytime.
    ```bash
    echo 'source /usr/share/gazebo/setup.sh' >> ~/.bashrc
    ```

3. Set Path of Gazebo Models so that they can be found (Adapt the path to where you cloned the repo)
    ```bash
    echo 'export GAZEBO_MODEL_PATH=~/ardupilot_gazebo/models' >> ~/.bashrc
    ```

4. Set Path of Gazebo Worlds so that they can be found (Adapt the path to where you cloned the repo)
    ```bash
    echo 'export GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH=~/ardupilot_gazebo/worlds:${GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH}' >> ~/.bashrc
    ```

5. Reload terminal
    ```bash
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

The newer version of the plugin (Github page [here](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot_gazebo)) failed to build with my Ubuntu 20.04 setup configuration.

#### Errors faced:
- **In Ubuntu 18.04, attempt to build the plugin resulted in many errors related to the `protobuff` library.** 
    - As of now, I have no idea how to solve this except by changing Ubuntu versions.
- **In Ubuntu 20.04, building the newer version of the plugin failed with *gz-cmake3 package not found*.**
    - As of now, use the older plugin.

## Installing Gazebo ROS Plugin
If we want to take this a step further and use ROS to command the drone, then we need an additional **ros_gazebo** plugin which takes data from Gazebo and publishes it
on ROS topics.

