# Short Introduction on Gazebo

### Common Files
There are two types of file you might encounter when working with Gazebo:

* `.world` contains the physics of the world simulated by Gazebo. For example,
you can specify the physics engine.
    * Differential equations that describe how states in the world changes with 
    time, including the solver, iterations, precision etc.
    * Ambient scenery of the world.
    * Presence of shadow.
* `.sdf` files are models that can be inputted into gazebo. The information
within these files include:
    * Mass of the files
    * Moments of Inertia
    * Mesh Size

You can launch worlds using `.launch` files. Within them you can specify
parameters such as "show simulation time", "debug mode". Of course, this can
also be used to launch nodes, such as a node that spawns the model of the robot
into the simulation environment.

## Installations
The steps are outlines in the official documentation [here](https://classic.gazebosim.org/tutorials?tut=ros_installing&cat=connect_ros).

Gazebo is a standalone physics simulation software. Before attempting to
integrate it with ROS, let's see if the standalone Gazebo works by running in
terminal:
```bash
gazebo
```
You should see the GUI open with an empty world. If not, install Gazebo.

To allow Gazebo to communicate with ROS, we also need to install a ROS package
called `gazebo_ros_pkgs`. This should have come with the full Desktop
installation of ROS, but you opted for alternative installation options then you
can still install it by:
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-noetic-gazebo-ros-pkgs ros-noetic-gazebo-ros-control
```
Make sure the ROS version is the command is the same as the version installed.


Some example worlds are shipped with Gazebo. These worlds are installed in
`/usr/share/gazebo-11/worlds`. Within this directory, the most relevant world
is `empty.world` and `iris_arducopter_demo.world`. The IRIS arducopter is a
specific quadcopter model used in simulations. For more accurate simulations,
we need to chage ethe 

We can launch Gazebo worlds with ROS launch files provided by the `gazebo_ros`
package. Example launch files are located at `/opt/ros/melodic/share/gazebo_ros/launch`,
including `empty_world.launch` and `mud_world.launch`.